---
sidebar_position: 2
sidebar_label: FAQs
---

import {
	SignUpsDate,
	AssignmentsDate,
	DueDate,
	RevealsDate,
	CreatorsDate,
} from "../src/components/Schedule";

# FAQs

## What do you mean by "a celebration of Elvhen characters"?

At least one of the main characters in the work should be an elf from Dragon
Age. This could be an original character or an NPC/canon character. Your piece
can be from another character's point of view as long as their friendship,
relationship, or interaction with the elf character is an important factor. For
example, you can write a piece from Anders' point of view about his friendship
with Merrill or you can write a ship focused piece from Alistair's POV as long
as he's romancing a Surana, Mahariel, Tabris, or other elf.

## What about elfblooded characters?

For the purpose of the exchange, we'd rather focus on characters which are fully
Elvhen, since in canon elfblooded characters take the appearance of the non-elf
parent's race. You're welcome to reject canon and headcanon half-elves as having
pointed ears, etc, for your piece, but a piece which didn't also have an elf
character wouldn't meet the requirements for the exchange. For example, a piece
where Alistair romances a Cousland wouldn't be acceptable for the exchange, but
one where he romances a Surana would be.

Similarly, unconfirmed headcanons concerning canon characters/NPCs being
elfblooded wouldn't qualify a piece for the exchange - i.e. elfblooded Varric or
elfblooded Dorian isn't enough for this exchange.

## How do I participate?

The exchange is being done through AO3. That means you have to have an AO3
account to sign-up or give treats. If you do not have an AO3 account and would
like one, the mods have invites available! Please feel free to reach out to us
for an invite.

## What are the requirements for the exchange?

All participants who sign-up must create either a fanfic or fanart gift in the
allotted time period for their assigned recipient. In exchange, they will
receive a fanfic or fanart gift which matches one of their requested ship or
character(s). Gifts do not have to follow a prompt exactly, but should match the
requested ships/characters and avoid the requestor's do not wants. For more
information on do not wants, please see the [Do Not Want FAQ](#dnw).

:::important Details

- _Fanfic:_ Assigned fics should be at least 1000 words. (We do allow shorter
  [treats](#treats)! More on those below.) There is no maximum word count.
  Multi-chapter fics are allowed but must be completed when submitted; you
  cannot plan to post updates after the exchange has closed. Fics may be
  included in another series or collection; however, please make sure any fic
  gifted can stand on its own. Your gift recipient shouldn't have to read your
  150,000 word slowburn fic to be able to enjoy their gift!
  <span className="inlineNote">
  	Please be sure to add any series or collections which could identify you
  	_after_ creator reveals.
  </span>
- _Fanart:_ completed, clean line art. Color and rendering are not required, but
  the piece must look finished and whole, with identifiable characters. No WIPs
  are allowed. Artists, please check out [this faq](#artist) on artist
  anonymity.
- All gifts should be allowed to be hosted on AO3.
- All gifts should comply with the requestor's do not wants.
- Smut is allowed (nay, encouraged!) as long as it doesn't contain a DNW in the
  request.
- All works should be rated and tagged appropriately.
- You must comment on gifts you receive, with a comment that's at least one
  complete sentence. Leaving comments can be difficult, so gif responses and
  memes are okay, but if you use those, please also add a few words to thank
  your gifter for their hard work!
- If you create some other type of fan content (vids, gifs, rotoscopes, etc) and
  would like to participate, please reach out to the mods via tumblr, twitter,
  or Discord. We'll make sure that your content can be hosted on AO3, and if so,
  let you know what your minimum requirements would be for a main gift or if you
  would need to treat rather than gift a main gift.

:::

## What are nominations?

Nominations are where you help the mods create the tags you want to see in the
event! Because ship tags may or may not exist and can be formatted in so many
different ways, restricting the tags you can use to a tag set helps the mods
ensure a higher possibility of matching requests with offers. But we have no way
of knowing what you want and just slapping "canonical tags" on the exchange
would limit us to already existing tags. Using a Nomination process for our tag
set allows us to tailor this exchange.

Each account can nominate up to 20 tags for the exchange.

Nominations are not an agreement to participate in the exchange. They're only an
indication of "please give me more content for this tag".

**Please be sure to follow nomination guidelines carefully.** You can find out
more in [Tutorials - How to Nominate](/docs/tutorials/nominate).

## How do I sign up?

Once sign-ups open, start by clicking the `Sign-Up Form` link to the left or
button at the top. You must have at least 1 request and 1 offer to sign up, but
you may add up to three ship/character tags per request/offer and have up to 10
requests and 10 offers in total.

:::importantDetails

- **For Both Requests and Offers:** Please use _Dragon Age - All Media Types_
  for your fandom, and mark whether you are interested in fanart or fanfic for
  your main gift. Please also indicate if you are open to treats and what type
  of treats.<br /><br />
- **For Offers:** In place of offering specific ships/characters, you may also
  be brave and offer to create for "Any" ship, by clicking the "Any" button.

:::

:::tip How to Ensure You Get a Match

The easiest way to make sure you get a match is to check the "Any" option for
**Relationships** on Offers in your sign up. The problem with this might be that
you aren't comfortable with writing or drawing literally any combination
possible. An option that allows you some more control is to keep an eye out on
the Requests Spreadsheet that is posted during sign-ups, and offer for a few of
the requests that are being made that interest you. You can edit your sign-up
after it's submitted up until Sign-Ups close, so be sure to check back
frequently.

:::

For more information see [Tutorials - How to Sign-Up](/docs/tutorials/signups).

<a id="dnw"></a>

## What are Do Not Wants (DNWs)?

Very simply put, it's a list of squicks, triggers, or even just dislikes that
you'd rather your gifts and [treats](#treats) not contain. It can be specific
ratings, characters, tropes, kinks, themes, etc, particularly ones that aren't
banned from the exchange. For example, if you aren't a fan of smut you can list
rated E works as a DNW or if you're okay with rated E, but not a fan of works
containing pegging, you can simply list pegging.

Since it can be impossible to be exhaustive, a phrase that comes highly
recommended is "DNW: kinks other than as requested". This allows you to request
specific kinks, and potentially avoid landmines of kinks you're not familiar
with.

## What happens after I sign-up?

Sign-ups close for everyone on <SignUpsDate />. The mods will start making
matches. If matches are not able to be made, we will reach out to you about
potentially editing your requests or offers to help make a match. Please make
sure to keep a close eye on your emails or DMs and respond to them ASAP.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
When everyone has been matched you will receive an email with your assignment to
complete. We hope to have those out (barring any major problems) by <AssignmentsDate />.
You can also watch tumblr and twitter for a post verifying when assignments have
been sent.
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

You have from the time you receive your assignment until <DueDate /> to create
and post your work. To post, click the "fulfill" button on your assignment and
post your work as normal. That will automatically associate it with the Exchange
without any extra work from you. You can create a dummy post with a placeholder
for content, titles, descriptions, etc, during this time, but all placeholders
MUST make a reasonable effort to be filled by <DueDate />. That means your
content should be in place with tags and description.

From <DueDate /> until <RevealsDate /> (between when works are due and when they
are revealed to the public) you can continue eiting your work, adding tags,
finalizing your title, and updating your description. This week exists to allow
time for extensions, pinch hits, and so the mods will have time to check out the
works to make sure they are complete and do not contain DNWs to the best of
their ability. If there are any issues mods will reach out to you to take action
ASAP.

Once works are revealed on <RevealsDate />, you may NOT post about your work on
social media or another site (revealing it as your own) yet. During this time
you can read and comment on works and make rec lists. Creators can respond to
comments and will automatically be marked as "Anonymous".

Creators will be revealed one week after work reveals on <RevealsDate />. At
this time you can post on other sites revealing which work is your own!

The collection will remain open so [Treats](#treats) can be added to the
collection.

<a id="artist"></a>

## But I'm an artist, what about artist signatures?

We encourage artists to create two versions of their art for the exchange. The
first one should not contain any identifying watermarks or signatures. You may
use a watermark that does not contain your username to help protect your work
from art theft.

Once creator reveals occur on <RevealsDate />, artists are highly encouraged to
swap out their unsigned/marked work for one with their signature. Our tumblr and
twitter posts that reveals are complete will include a reminder to do so!

<a id="treats"></a>

## What are Treats?

Treats are extra works gifted to participants from people who may or may not
have signed up for the exchange. While Treats must meet all other rules and
requirements, they have relaxed rules on length and style. Treats should be
complete at reveals or (if being added after reveals) when posted.

:::important Details

- _Fanfic:_ Treats should be at least 100 words. Yes! You can submit a drabble
  treat!
- _Fanart:_ Clean sketches are allowed. You should still be able to tell who the
  characters are, but finished and polished line art is not required.
- _Other Works:_ Must be complete, whatever that means for your media, and able
  to be hosted on AO3. If you have questions about that please contact the mods.

:::

See [Treats & Treatless FAQ](/docs/treats) for more information on treats.

## Help! I'm running out of room for offers!

If you have more than 30 ships/characters you want to offer, but aren't willing
to create for literally **Any** ship requested, please feel free to list other
ships in your _Additional Info_ for your first offer. If we have difficulties
matching someone we will take a look at Additional Info in offers to help with
matching! You don't have to list your additional ships in every offer; however,
we DO ask that you complete all 10 offers, with at least three ships each before
you use this option.

<strong>General Guidelines for Listing Additional Ships for Offers:</strong>

- Please complete all 30 Offers (3 per offer with 10 offers) first.
- Ships in the Additional Info box should have been nominated and be on this
  year's nomination list.
- Ships in the Additional Info box should _only_ be listed on your first Offer.
- You can list any number of ships (up to the character limit of the box).
- Ships _do not_ have to be related to ships you've already offered.

## I can't complete my assignment. What do I do?

Let a moderator know ASAP, if you don't think you will be able to complete your
assignment so that we can look at giving you an extension. There is nothing
wrong with needing an extension. To request an extension, please complete the
form on [Request an Extension](/extension). You may also:
[send a tumblr ask](https://arlathanxchange.tumblr.com/ask),
[email us at arlathanxchange@gmail.com](mailto:arlathanxchange@gmail.com), or
reach out to an individual moderator through Discord.

If you can't complete your assignment at all even with an extension, for any
reason, please let us know before you default on AO3 so that we can find a pinch
hitter. We will work to make sure the offer is fulfilled, either by a volunteer
or by a moderator.

## What's a pinch hit and who can complete them?

Pinch hits are requests which need someone other than the original assignee to
be completed. They can be completed by moderators or anyone from the community
with an AO3 account willing to take on the challenge. You do not currently have
to be signed-up to the exchange to claim a pinch-hit.

Pinch hits are posted on the tumblr, twitter, and exchange Discord as moderators
are made aware they are needed. Pinch hit deadlines are established as they are
claimed and may fit outside of the other exchange deadlines.

**Works for the exchange will not be revealed until everyone who signed up has a
gift!**

## What does this exchange being moderated mean?

Our goal as moderators is to ensure that everyone gets a gift they're
comfortable with receiving for a ship they requested. With that goal in mind,
that means we do reviews throughout the various steps of the exchange. More
specifically:

1. **We review tag nominations to make sure they fit our guidelines.** Tags
   which do not fit our guidelines are posted in the discord server, on the
   tumblr, twitter, and in the nominations spreadsheet so that they can be
   updated.
2. **We review sign-ups.** We may send emails asking for clarifications on
   [Do Not Wants](#what-are-do-not-wants-dnws), in particular, but also may
   recommend that you provide OC info or other clarifying information if we
   think something is very unclear. This is not to police what you're asking
   for, only to ensure that what you want is clear for anyone looking to create
   a gift or treat for you.

  :::note
  
  You do not have to have [Do Not Wants](#what-are-do-not-wants-dnws), but
  please be advised we will email you to ask if you meant not to include
  them. If you truly have none you can say on your sign up "No Do Not Wants"
  and we will not email.
  
  :::

   If you are creating for someone and have questions, you can reach out to a
   moderator and we will be happy to try to get clarifications or more details
   for you!

3. **We review works for requested ships, Do Not Wants, and other content we may
   not be sure about.** We cannot guarantee we are 100% accurate, but we do try
   to catch things which you might not want. We will send emails to creators
   _before_ reaching out to the recipient to see how you might like to handle
   any questions we have. Our goal here is to preserve the surprise, so our
   first contact will always be the gifter. You can always request we check with
   the recipient if you would prefer that.

## There's a problem with my gift/treat!

First, we're very sorry we missed something on our reviews. If your received
gift/treat violates a rule of the exchange (including but not limited to
violating your DNWs or not being healthy polyamory), please reach out to a
moderator so we can review the situation and decide what action to take _before_
you contact your gifter in comment or any other way. This allows us to approach
things as a neutral third party for you.

You are always allowed to reject a gift/treat that meets the requirements of the
exchange, but isn't quite what you wanted, even if it doesn't violate your DNWs.
Before you do so, we encourage you to reach out to a moderator so we can review
the situation.

Please be aware that reaching out to a moderator won't necessarily get anyone in
"trouble" or banned from our exchanges! Solutions could be a rewrite, another
gift/treat, or a pinch hit to take the place of the other gift. Don't ever be
afraid to speak up!

## Why hasn't my work been approved?

Approvals for works do take time! As mentioned above, we do at least a minimum
review of tags and potentially skim the works, as well.

We also tend to approve in batches, especially early in the exchange, to help
make sure that people can't see _exactly_ what they will be getting. Because of
this, your work may sit in the collection unapproved for days or weeks if you
are very fast at creation. If you haven't heard from us, rest assured there's
nothing wrong with your gift, and it will be approved as soon as we have enough
works to make it not obvious who is receiving what.

As we get closer to reveals, work approvals do tend to happen sooner rather than
later.

By the way, we don't discourage "gift shaking" or "collection shaking" directly,
but we do like to make it a challenge for you! We think you, as an adult, are
perfectly capable of deciding whether you'd like to shake your gift or not.
However, we also don't want to accidentally spoil the surprise for anyone who's
trying to keep things a surprise for themselves.
